\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename consult.info
@settitle consult.el - Consulting completing-read
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* Consult: (consult).   Useful commands built on completing-read.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title consult.el - Consulting completing-read
@author Daniel Mendler
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top consult.el - Consulting completing-read
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::                 Why Consult?
* Available commands::           Navigation, search, editing commands and more
* Special features::             Enhancements over built-in `completing-read'
* Configuration::                Example configuration and customization variables
* Recommended packages::         Related packages recommended for installation
* Bug reports::                  How to create reproducible bug reports
* Contributions::                Feature requests and pull requests
* Acknowledgements::             Contributors and Sources of Inspiration
* Indices::                      Indices of concepts and functions

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Available commands

* Virtual Buffers::              Buffers, bookmarks and recent files
* Editing::                      Commands useful for editing
* Register::                     Searching through registers and fast access
* Navigation::                   Mark rings, outlines and imenu
* Search::                       Line search, grep and file search
* Grep and Find::                Searching through the filesystem
* Compilation::                  Jumping to references and compilation errors
* Histories::                    Navigating histories
* Modes::                        Toggling minor modes and executing commands
* Org Mode::                     Org-specific commands
* Miscellaneous::                Various other useful commands

Special features

* Live previews::                Preview the currently selected candidate
* Narrowing and grouping::       Restricting the completion to a candidate group
* Asynchronous search::          Filtering asynchronously generated candidate lists
* Multiple sources::             Combining candidates from different sources
* Embark integration::           Actions, Grep/Occur-buffer export

Configuration

* Use-package example::          Configuration example based on use-package
* Custom variables::             Short description of all customization settings
* Fine-tuning::                  Fine-grained configuration for special requirements

Indices

* Function index::               List of all Consult commands
* Concept index::                List of all Consult-specific concepts

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@cindex introduction

Consult provides various practical commands based on the Emacs completion
function @uref{https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/elisp/Minibuffer-Completion.html, completing-read}, which allows to quickly select an item from a list of
candidates with completion. Consult offers in particular an advanced buffer
switching command @samp{consult-buffer} to switch between buffers and recently opened
files. Multiple search commands are provided, an asynchronous @samp{consult-grep} and
@samp{consult-ripgrep}, and @samp{consult-line}, which resembles @uref{https://github.com/abo-abo/swiper#swiper, Swiper}. Some of the
Consult commands are enhanced versions of built-in Emacs commands. For example
the command @samp{consult-imenu} presents a flat list of the Imenu with @ref{Live previews, , live preview}
and @ref{Narrowing and grouping, , narrowing support}. Please take a look at the @ref{Available commands, , full list of commands}.

Consult is fully compatible with completion systems based on the standard Emacs
@samp{completing-read} API, notably the default completion system, @uref{https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Icomplete.html, Icomplete},
@uref{https://github.com/raxod502/selectrum, Selectrum}, @uref{https://github.com/minad/vertico, Vertico} and @uref{https://github.com/oantolin/embark/, Embark}. In case you like to use Icomplete, it is
recommended to enable a vertical display mode. recommended. On Emacs 28,
Icomplete offers the built-in @samp{icomplete-vertical-mode} and on earlier Emacs
versions you can install the external @uref{https://github.com/oantolin/icomplete-vertical, Icomplete-vertical} package.

The completion system specifics in this package are kept to a minimum. The
ability of the Consult commands to work well with arbitrary completion systems
is one of the main advantages of the package. Consult fits well into existing
setups and it helps you to create a full completion environment out of small and
independent components. Note that, if you use @uref{https://github.com/abo-abo/swiper#ivy, Ivy} or @uref{https://github.com/emacs-helm/helm, Helm}, you probably don't
need Consult, since both packages come with their own set of commands.

There are the @uref{https://github.com/minad/marginalia/, Marginalia} and @uref{https://github.com/oantolin/embark/, Embark} packages, which can be combined with
Consult. Marginalia enriches the completion display with annotations, e.g.,
documentation strings or file information. The versatile Embark package provides
local actions, comparable to a context menu. These actions can be executed on
the selected candidate in the minibuffer or in other contexts. For example, when
selecting from a list of files, Embark offers an action to delete the file.
Additionally Embark can also be used as a completion system by itself through
its live-updating collect buffer. The @ref{Embark integration} is described later in
greater detail.

@node Available commands
@chapter Available commands

@cindex commands

Most Consult commands follow the meaningful naming scheme @samp{consult-<thing>}.
Many commands implement a little known but convenient Emacs feature called
"future history", which guesses what input the user wants. At a command prompt
type @samp{M-n} and typically Consult will insert the symbol or thing at point into
the input.

@strong{TIP:} If you have @uref{https://github.com/minad/marginalia, Marginalia} annotators activated, type @samp{M-x ^consult} to see
all Consult commands with their abbreviated description. Alternatively, type
@samp{C-h a ^consult} to get an overview of all Consult variables and functions with
their descriptions.

@menu
* Virtual Buffers::              Buffers, bookmarks and recent files
* Editing::                      Commands useful for editing
* Register::                     Searching through registers and fast access
* Navigation::                   Mark rings, outlines and imenu
* Search::                       Line search, grep and file search
* Grep and Find::                Searching through the filesystem
* Compilation::                  Jumping to references and compilation errors
* Histories::                    Navigating histories
* Modes::                        Toggling minor modes and executing commands
* Org Mode::                     Org-specific commands
* Miscellaneous::                Various other useful commands
@end menu

@node Virtual Buffers
@section Virtual Buffers

@cindex virtual buffers

@findex consult-buffer
@findex consult-buffer-other-window
@findex consult-buffer-other-frame
@findex consult-recent-file
@findex consult-bookmark
@itemize
@item
@samp{consult-buffer} (@samp{-other-window}, @samp{-other-frame}): Enhanced version
of @samp{switch-to-buffer} with support for virtual buffers. Supports live preview
of buffers and narrowing to the virtual buffer types. You can type @samp{f SPC} in
order to narrow to recent files. Ephemeral buffers can be shown by pressing
@samp{SPC}. Supported narrowing keys:
@itemize
@item
b Buffers
@item
f Files (Requires @samp{recentf-mode})
@item
m Bookmarks
@item
p Project (only available if @samp{consult-project-root-function} is
configured as shown in the @ref{Use-package example, , example configuration}).
@item
Arbitrary @ref{Multiple sources, , other sources} can be configured via @samp{consult-buffer-sources}.
@end itemize
By default only buffers are preview in order to ensure that @samp{consult-buffer}
is fast, but it is possible to @ref{Multiple sources, , configure} file and bookmark preview.
@item
@samp{consult-bookmark}: Select or create bookmark. You might use the
powerful @samp{consult-buffer} as an alternative, which can include a bookmark
virtual buffer source. But note that @samp{consult-bookmark} supports preview of
bookmarks and narrowing.
@item
@samp{consult-recent-file}: Select from recent files with preview.
You might prefer the powerful @samp{consult-buffer} instead, which can include
recent files as a virtual buffer source. Note that @samp{recentf-mode} should be
enabled in order to track recent files.
@end itemize

@node Editing
@section Editing

@cindex editing

@findex consult-yank-pop
@findex consult-yank-from-kill-ring
@findex consult-yank-replace
@findex consult-kmacro
@itemize
@item
@samp{consult-yank-from-kill-ring}: Enhanced version of @samp{yank} which allows
to select an item from the @samp{kill-ring}. The selected text previewed as overlay
in the buffer.
@item
@samp{consult-yank-pop}: Enhanced version of @samp{yank-pop} with DWIM-behavior, which
either replaces the last @samp{yank} by cycling through the @samp{kill-ring}, or if
there has not been a last @samp{yank} allows to select an item from the
@samp{kill-ring}. The selected text previewed as overlay in the buffer.
@item
@samp{consult-yank-replace}: Like @samp{consult-yank-pop}, but always replaces the last
@samp{yank} with an item from the @samp{kill-ring}.
@item
@samp{consult-kmacro}: Select macro from the macro ring and execute it.
@end itemize

@node Register
@section Register

@cindex register

@findex consult-register
@findex consult-register-load
@findex consult-register-store
@findex consult-register-format
@findex consult-register-window
@itemize
@item
@samp{consult-register}: Select from list of registers. The command
supports narrowing to register types and preview of marker positions. This
command is useful to search the register contents. For quick access it is
recommended to use @samp{consult-register-load} or @samp{consult-register-store} or the
built-in Emacs register commands.
@item
@samp{consult-register-format}: Supplementary register formatting function which can be
used as @samp{register-preview-function} for an enhanced register formatting. See
the @ref{Use-package example, , example configuration}.
@item
@samp{consult-register-window}: Supplementary function which can be used
as replacement for @samp{register-preview} for a better register window. See the
@ref{Use-package example, , example configuration}.
@item
@samp{consult-register-load}: Utility command to quickly load a register.
The command either jumps to the register value or inserts it.
@item
@samp{consult-register-store}: Improved UI to store registers depending on the current
context with an action menu. With an active region, store/append/prepend the
contents, optionally deleting the region when a prefix argument is given.
With a numeric prefix argument, store/add the number. Otherwise store point,
frameset, window or kmacro. Usage examples:
@itemize
@item
@samp{M-' x}: If no region is active, store point in register @samp{x}.
If a region is active, store the region in register @samp{x}.
@item
@samp{M-' M-w x}: Store window configuration in register @samp{x}.
@item
@samp{C-u 100 M-' x}: Store number in register @samp{x}.
@end itemize
@end itemize

@node Navigation
@section Navigation

@cindex navigation

@findex consult-goto-line
@findex consult-mark
@findex consult-global-mark
@findex consult-outline
@findex consult-imenu
@findex consult-project-imenu
@itemize
@item
@samp{consult-goto-line}: Jump to line number enhanced with live preview.
This is a drop-in replacement for @samp{goto-line}.
@item
@samp{consult-mark}: Jump to a marker in the @samp{mark-ring}. Supports live
preview and recursive editing.
@item
@samp{consult-global-mark}: Jump to a marker in the @samp{global-mark-ring}.
Supports live preview and recursive editing.
@item
@samp{consult-outline}: Jump to a heading of the outline. Supports narrowing
to a heading level, live preview and recursive editing.
@item
@samp{consult-imenu}: Jump to imenu item in the current buffer. Supports
live preview, recursive editing and narrowing.
@item
@samp{consult-project-imenu}: Jump to imenu item in project buffers, with
the same major mode as the current buffer. Supports live preview,
recursive editing and narrowing. This feature has been inspired by
@uref{https://github.com/vspinu/imenu-anywhere, imenu-anywhere}.
@end itemize

@node Search
@section Search

@cindex search

@findex consult-line
@findex consult-multi-occur
@findex consult-keep-lines
@findex consult-focus-lines
@findex consult-isearch
@itemize
@item
@samp{consult-line}: Enter search string and select from matching lines.
Supports live preview and recursive editing. The symbol at point and the
recent Isearch string are added to the "future history" and can be accessed
by pressing @samp{M-n}. When @samp{consult-line} is bound to the @samp{isearch-mode-map} and
is invoked during a running Isearch, it will use the current Isearch string.
@item
@samp{consult-isearch}: During an Isearch session, this command picks a
search string from history and continues the search with the newly selected
string. Outside of Isearch, the command allows to pick a string from the
history and starts a new Isearch. This command can be used as a drop-in
replacement for @samp{isearch-edit-string}.
@item
@samp{consult-multi-occur}: Replacement for @samp{multi-occur} which uses
@samp{completing-read-multiple}.
@item
@samp{consult-keep-lines}: Replacement for @samp{keep/flush-lines}
which uses the current completion style for filtering the buffer. The
function updates the buffer while typing. In particular, this function can be
used to further narrow an exported Embark collect buffer with the same
completion filtering as during @samp{completing-read}. If the input begins with
the negation operator, i.e., @code{! SPC}, the filter matches the complement. If a
region is active, the filtering is restricted to that region.
@item
@samp{consult-focus-lines}: Temporarily hide lines by filtering them using the current
completion style. Call with @samp{C-u} prefix argument in order to show the hidden
lines again. If the input begins with the negation operator, i.e., @code{! SPC},
the filter matches the complement. In contrast to @samp{consult-keep-lines} this
function does not edit the buffer. If a region is active, the focusing is
restricted to that region.
@end itemize

@node Grep and Find
@section Grep and Find

@cindex grep
@cindex find
@cindex locate

@findex consult-grep
@findex consult-ripgrep
@findex consult-git-grep
@findex consult-find
@findex consult-locate
@itemize
@item
@samp{consult-grep}, @samp{consult-ripgrep}, @samp{consult-git-grep}: Search for
regular expression in files. Grep is invoked asynchronously, while you enter
the search term. You are required to enter at least @samp{consult-async-min-input}
characters in order for the search to get started. The input string is split
into two parts, if the first character is a punctuation character, like @samp{#}.
For example @samp{#grep-regexp#filter-string}, is split at the second @samp{#}. The
string @samp{grep-regexp} is passed to Grep, the @samp{filter-string} is passed to the
@emph{fast} Emacs filtering to further narrow down the list of matches. This is
particularily useful if you are using an advanced completion style like
orderless. @samp{consult-grep} supports preview. If the
@samp{consult-project-root-function} is @ref{Use-package example, , configured} and returns non-nil,
@samp{consult-grep} searches the current project directory. Otherwise the
@samp{default-directory} is searched. If @samp{consult-grep} is invoked with prefix
argument @samp{C-u M-s g}, you can specify the directory manually.
@item
@samp{consult-find}, @samp{consult-locate}: Find file by
matching the path against a regexp. Like @samp{consult-grep} either the project
root or the current directory is used as root directory for the search. The
input string is treated similarly to @samp{consult-grep}, where the first part is
passed to find, and the second part is used for Emacs filtering. Note that
the standard @samp{find} command uses wildcards in contrast to the popular @samp{fd},
which uses regular expressions. In case you want to use @samp{fd}, you can either
change the @samp{consult-find-command} configuration variable or define a small
command as described in the @uref{https://github.com/minad/consult/wiki, Consult wiki}.
@end itemize

@node Compilation
@section Compilation

@cindex compilation errors

@findex consult-compile-error
@findex consult-flymake
@findex consult-flycheck
@findex consult-xref
@itemize
@item
@samp{consult-compile-error}: Jump to a compilation error. Supports live preview
narrowing and and recursive editing.
@item
@samp{consult-flymake}: Jump to flymake diagnostic. Supports live preview and
recursive editing. The command supports narrowing. Press @samp{e SPC}, @samp{w SPC}, @samp{n
   SPC} to only show errors, warnings and notes respectively.
@item
@samp{consult-flycheck}: Jump to flycheck error, similar to @samp{consult-flymake}.
This command requires the installation of the additional @samp{consult-flycheck.el}
package since the main @samp{consult} package only depends on Emacs core
components.
@item
@samp{consult-xref}: Integration with xref. This function can be set as
as @samp{xref-show-xrefs-function} and @samp{xref-show-definitions-function}.
@end itemize

@node Histories
@section Histories

@cindex history

@findex consult-complex-command
@findex consult-history
@itemize
@item
@samp{consult-complex-command}: Select a command from the
@samp{command-history}. This command is a @samp{completing-read} version of
@samp{repeat-complex-command} and can also be considered a replacement for
the @samp{command-history} command from chistory.el.
@item
@samp{consult-history}: Insert a string from the current buffer history.
This command can be invoked from the minibuffer. In that case the
history stored in the @samp{minibuffer-history-variable} is used.
@end itemize

@node Modes
@section Modes

@cindex minor mode
@cindex major mode

@findex consult-minor-mode-menu
@findex consult-mode-command
@itemize
@item
@samp{consult-minor-mode-menu}: Enable/disable minor mode. Supports
narrowing to on/off/local/global modes by pressing @samp{i/o/l/g SPC}
respectively.
@item
@samp{consult-mode-command}: Run a command from the currently active minor
or major modes. Supports narrowing to local-minor/global-minor/major
mode via the keys @samp{l/g/m}.
@end itemize

@node Org Mode
@section Org Mode

@findex consult-org-heading
@findex consult-org-agenda
@itemize
@item
@samp{consult-org-heading}: Similar to @samp{consult-outline}, for Org
buffers. Supports narrowing by heading level, priority and TODO
state, as well as live preview and recursive editing.
@item
@samp{consult-org-agenda}: Jump to an agenda heading. Supports
narrowing by heading level, priority and TODO state, as well as
live preview and recursive editing.
@end itemize

@node Miscellaneous
@section Miscellaneous

@findex consult-apropos
@findex consult-file-externally
@findex consult-completion-in-region
@findex consult-theme
@findex consult-man
@findex consult-preview-at-point
@findex consult-preview-at-point-mode
@itemize
@item
@samp{consult-apropos}: Replacement for @samp{apropos} with completion.
@item
@samp{consult-man}: Find Unix man page, via Unix @samp{apropos} or @samp{man -k}.
The selected man page is opened using the Emacs @samp{man} command.
@item
@samp{consult-file-externally}: Select a file and open it externally,
e.g. using @samp{xdg-open} on Linux.
@item
@samp{consult-completion-in-region}: Function which can be used as
@samp{completion-in-region-function}. This way, the minibuffer completion UI will
be used for @samp{completion-at-point}. This function is particularily useful in
combination with Vertico or Icomplete, since these UIs do not provide their
own @samp{completion-in-region-function}. Selectrum already comes with its own
function. However you may not want to transfer the completion at point into
the minibuffer and prefer to see the completions directly in the buffer as a
small popup. In that case you can either use the @uref{https://github.com/minad/corfu, Corfu} or the @uref{https://github.com/company-mode/company-mode, Company}
package.
@item
@samp{consult-theme}: Select a theme and disable all currently enabled
themes. Supports live preview of the theme while scrolling through the
candidates.
@item
@samp{consult-preview-at-point} and @samp{consult-preview-at-point-mode}: Command and
minor mode which allows preview at point in the @samp{*Completions*} buffer. This
is mainly relevant if you use the default @samp{*Completions*} UI or if you want
to enable preview in Embark Collect buffers.
@end itemize

@node Special features
@chapter Special features

Consult enhances @samp{completing-read} with live previews of candidates, additional
narrowing capabilities to candidate groups and asynchronously generated
candidate lists. This functionality is provided by the internal @samp{consult--read}
function, which is used by most Consult commands. The @samp{consult--read} function
is a thin wrapper around @samp{completing-read}. In order to support multiple
candidate sources there exists the high-level function @samp{consult--multi}. The
architecture of Consult allows it to work with different completion systems in
the backend, while still offering advanced features.

@menu
* Live previews::                Preview the currently selected candidate
* Narrowing and grouping::       Restricting the completion to a candidate group
* Asynchronous search::          Filtering asynchronously generated candidate lists
* Multiple sources::             Combining candidates from different sources
* Embark integration::           Actions, Grep/Occur-buffer export
@end menu

@node Live previews
@section Live previews

@cindex preview

Some Consult commands support live previews. For example when you scroll
through the items of @samp{consult-line}, the buffer will scroll to the
corresponding position. It is possible to jump back and forth between the
minibuffer and the buffer to perform recursive editing while the search is
ongoing.

Previews are enabled by default but can be disabled via the
@samp{consult-preview-key} variable. Furthermore it is possible to specify
keybindings which trigger the preview manually as shown in the @ref{Use-package example, , example
configuration}. The default setting of @samp{consult-preview-key} is @samp{any} which
means that the preview will be triggered on any keypress when the selected
candidate changes. Each command can be configured individually with its own
@samp{:preview-key}, such that preview can be manual for some commands, for some
commands automatic and for some commands completely disabled.

@node Narrowing and grouping
@section Narrowing and grouping

@cindex narrowing

Consult has special support for candidate groups which are separated by
separator lines with titles if supported by the completion system. As of now,
Selectrum, Vertico and @uref{https://github.com/oantolin/icomplete-vertical, Icomplete-vertical} provide support. This functionality
is useful if the list of candidates consists of candidates of multiple types or
candidates from @ref{Multiple sources, , multiple sources}, like the @samp{consult-buffer} command, which
shows both buffers and recently opened files. Note that the group titles can be
disabled by setting the @samp{:title} property of the corresponding command in the
@samp{consult-config} configuration alist to nil.

By entering a narrowing prefix or by pressing a narrowing key it is possible to
restrict the completion candidates to a certain candidate group. When you use
the @samp{consult-buffer} command, you can enter the prefix @samp{b SPC} and the list of
candidates will be restricted to buffers only. If you press @samp{DEL} afterwards,
the full candidate list will be shown again. Furthermore a narrowing prefix key
and a widening key can be configured which can be pressed to achieve the same
effect, see the configuration variables @samp{consult-narrow-key} and
@samp{consult-widen-key}.

After pressing @samp{consult-narrow-key}, the possible narrowing keys can be shown
by pressing @samp{C-h}. When pressing @samp{C-h} after some prefix key, the
@samp{prefix-help-command} is invoked, which shows the keybinding help window by
default. As a more compact alternative, there is the @samp{consult-narrow-help}
command which can be bound to a key, for example @samp{?} or @samp{C-h} in the
@samp{consult-narrow-map}, as shown in the @ref{Use-package example, , example configuration}. If @uref{https://github.com/justbur/emacs-which-key, which-key} is
installed, the narrowing keys are automatically shown in the which-key window
after pressing the @samp{consult-narrow-key}.

@node Asynchronous search
@section Asynchronous search

@cindex asynchronous search

Consult has support for asynchronous generation of candidate lists. This
feature is used for search commands like @samp{consult-grep}, where the list of
matches is generated dynamically while the user is typing a grep regular
expression. The grep process is executed in the background. When modifying the
grep regular expression, the background process is terminated and a new process
is started with the modified regular expression.

The matches, which have been found, can then be narrowed using the installed
Emacs completion-style. This can be powerful if you are using for example the
@samp{orderless} completion style.

This two-level filtering is possible by splitting the input string. Part of the
input string is treated as input to grep and part of the input is used for
filtering. The input string is split at a punctuation character, using a
similar syntax as Perl regular expressions.

Examples:

@itemize
@item
@samp{#defun}: Search for "defun" using grep.
@item
@samp{#defun#consult}: Search for "defun" using grep, filter with the word
"consult".
@item
@samp{/defun/consult}: It is also possible to use other punctuation
characters.
@item
@samp{#to#}: Force searching for "to" using grep, since the grep pattern
must be longer than @samp{consult-async-min-input} characters by default.
@item
@samp{#defun -- --invert-match#}: Pass argument @samp{--invert-match} to grep.
@end itemize

For asynchronous processes like @samp{find} and @samp{grep},
there is an error log buffer @samp{_*consult-async*} (note the leading space).
The prompt has a small indicator showing the process status:

@itemize
@item
@samp{:} the usual prompt colon, before input is provided.
@item
@samp{*} with warning face, the process is running.
@item
@samp{:} with success face, success, process exited with an error code of zero.
@item
@samp{!} with error face, failure, process exited with a nonzero error code.
@item
@samp{;} with error face, interrupted, for example if more input is provided.
@end itemize

@node Multiple sources
@section Multiple sources

@cindex multiple sources

Consult allows combining multiple synchronous candidate sources. This feature
is used by the @samp{consult-buffer} command to present buffer-like candidates in a
single menu for quick access. By default @samp{consult-buffer} includes buffers,
bookmarks, recent files and project-specific buffers and files. It is possible
to configure the list of sources via the @samp{consult-buffer-sources} variable.
Arbitrary custom sources can be defined.

As an example, the bookmark source is defined as follows:

@lisp
(defvar consult--source-bookmark
  `(:name     "Bookmark"
    :narrow   ?m
    :category bookmark
    :face     consult-bookmark
    :history  bookmark-history
    :items    ,#'bookmark-all-names
    :action   ,#'consult--bookmark-action))
@end lisp

Required source fields:
@itemize
@item
@samp{:category} Completion category.
@item
@samp{:items} List of strings to select from or function returning list of strings.
@end itemize

Optional source fields:
@itemize
@item
@samp{:name} Name of the source, used for narrowing, group titles and annotations.
@item
@samp{:narrow} Narrowing character or @samp{(character . string)} pair.
@item
@samp{:preview-key} Preview key or keys which trigger preview.
@item
@samp{:enabled} Function which must return t if the source is enabled.
@item
@samp{:hidden} When t candidates of this source are hidden by default.
@item
@samp{:face} Face used for highlighting the candidates.
@item
@samp{:annotate} Annotation function called for each candidate, returns string.
@item
@samp{:history} Name of history variable to add selected candidate.
@item
@samp{:default} Must be t if the first item of the source is the default value.
@item
@samp{:action} Action function called with the selected candidate.
@item
@samp{:state} State constructor for the source, must return the state function.
@item
Other source fields can be added specifically to the use case.
@end itemize

The @samp{:state} and @samp{:action} fields of the sources deserve a longer explanation.
The @samp{:action} function takes a single argument and is only called after
selection with the selected candidate, if the selection has not been aborted.
This functionality is provided for convenience and easy definition of sources.
The @samp{:state} field is more complicated and general. The @samp{:state} function is a
constructor function without arguments, which can perform some setup
necessary for the preview. It must return a closure with two arguments: The
first argument is the candidate string, the second argument is the restore
flag. The state function is called during preview, if a preview key has been
pressed, with the selected candidate or nil and the restore argument being
nil. Furthermore the state function is always called after selection with the
selected candidate or nil. The state function is called with nil for the
candidate if for example the selection process has been aborted or if the
original preview state should be restored during preview. The restore flag is
t for the final call. The final call happens even if preview is disabled. For
this reason you can also use the final call to the state function in a similar
way as @samp{:action}. You probably only want to specify both @samp{:state} and
@samp{:action} if @samp{:state} is purely responsible for preview and @samp{:action} is then
responsible for the real action after selection.

In order to avoid slowness, @samp{consult-buffer} only preview buffers by default.
Loading recent files, bookmarks or views can result in expensive operations.
However it is possible to configure the bookmark and file sources to also
perform preview.

@lisp
(dolist (src '(consult--source-file consult--source-project-file consult--source-bookmark))
  (set src (plist-put (symbol-value src) :preview-key (kbd "M-."))))
@end lisp

Sources can be added directly to the @samp{consult-buffer-source} list for
convenience. For example views can be added to the list of virtual buffers
from a library like @uref{https://github.com/minad/bookmark-view/}.

@lisp
;; Configure new bookmark-view source
(add-to-list 'consult-buffer-sources
              (list :name     "View"
                    :narrow   ?v
                    :category 'bookmark
                    :face     'font-lock-keyword-face
                    :history  'bookmark-view-history
                    :action   #'consult--bookmark-jump
                    :items    #'bookmark-view-names)
              'append)

;; Modify bookmark source, such that views are hidden
(setq consult--source-bookmark
      (plist-put
       consult--source-bookmark :items
       (lambda ()
         (bookmark-maybe-load-default-file)
         (mapcar #'car
                 (seq-remove (lambda (x)
                               (eq #'bookmark-view-handler
                                   (alist-get 'handler (cdr x))))
                             bookmark-alist)))))
@end lisp

Other useful sources allow the creation of terminal and eshell
buffers if they do not exist yet.

@lisp
(defun mode-buffer-exists-p (mode)
  (seq-some (lambda (buf)
              (provided-mode-derived-p
               (buffer-local-value 'major-mode buf)
               mode))
            (buffer-list)))

(defvar eshell-source
  `(:category 'consult-new
    :face     'font-lock-constant-face
    :action   ,(lambda (_) (eshell))
    :items
    ,(lambda ()
       (unless (mode-buffer-exists-p 'eshell-mode)
         '("*eshell* (new)")))))

(defvar term-source
  `(:category 'consult-new
    :face     'font-lock-constant-face
    :action
    ,(lambda (_)
       (ansi-term (or (getenv "SHELL") "/bin/sh")))
    :items
    ,(lambda ()
       (unless (mode-buffer-exists-p 'term-mode)
         '("*ansi-term* (new)")))))

(add-to-list 'consult-buffer-sources 'eshell-source 'append)
(add-to-list 'consult-buffer-sources 'term-source 'append)
@end lisp

For more details, see the documentation of @samp{consult-buffer} and of the
internal @samp{consult--multi} API@. The @samp{consult--multi} function can be used to
create new multi-source commands, but is part of the internal API as of now,
since some details may still change.

@node Embark integration
@section Embark integration

@cindex embark

@strong{NOTE}: Install the @samp{embark-consult} package from MELPA, which provides
Consult-specific Embark actions and the Occur buffer export.

Embark is a versatile package which offers context dependent actions,
comparable to a context menu. See the @uref{https://github.com/oantolin/embark, Embark manual} for an extensive
description of its capabilities.

Actions are commands which can operate on the currently selected candidate (or
target in Embark terminology). When completing files, for example the
@samp{delete-file} command is offered. Embark also allows to to execute arbitrary
commands on the currently selected candidate via @samp{M-x}.

Furthermore Embark provides the @samp{embark-collect-snapshot} command, which
collects candidates and presents them in an Embark collect buffer, where
further actions can be applied to them. A related feature is the
@samp{embark-export} command, which allows to export candidate lists to a buffer of
a special type. For example in the case of file completion, a Dired buffer is
opened.

In the context of Consult, particularily exciting is the possibility to export
the matching lines from @samp{consult-line}, @samp{consult-outline}, @samp{consult-mark} and
@samp{consult-global-mark}. The matching lines are exported to an Occur buffer where
they can be edited via the @samp{occur-edit-mode} (press key @samp{e}). Similarily,
Embark supports exporting the matches found by @samp{consult-grep},
@samp{consult-ripgrep} and @samp{consult-git-grep} to a Grep buffer, where the matches
across files can be edited, if the @uref{https://github.com/mhayashi1120/Emacs-wgrep, wgrep} package is installed. The two
workflows are symmetric.

@itemize
@item
@samp{consult-line} -> @samp{embark-export} to @samp{occur-mode} buffer
-> @samp{occur-edit-mode} for editing of matches in buffer.
@item
@samp{consult-grep} -> @samp{embark-export} to @samp{grep-mode} buffer
-> @samp{wgrep} for editing of all matches.
@end itemize

@node Configuration
@chapter Configuration

Consult can be installed from @uref{https://melpa.org/, MELPA} via the Emacs built-in package manager.
Alternatively it can be directly installed from the development repository via
other non-standard package managers.

Note that there are two packages as of now: @samp{consult} and @samp{consult-flycheck}.
@samp{consult-flycheck} is a separate package such that the core @samp{consult} package
only depends on Emacs core components.

There is the @uref{https://github.com/minad/consult/wiki, Consult wiki}, where additional configuration examples can be
contributed.

@strong{IMPORTANT:} It is strongly recommended that you enable @uref{https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/elisp/Lexical-Binding.html, lexical binding} in your
configuration. Consult uses a functional programming style, relying on lambdas
and lexical closures. For this reason many Consult-related snippets require
lexical binding.

@menu
* Use-package example::          Configuration example based on use-package
* Custom variables::             Short description of all customization settings
* Fine-tuning::                  Fine-grained configuration for special requirements
@end menu

@node Use-package example
@section Use-package example

@cindex use-package

It is recommended to manage package configurations with the @samp{use-package} macro.
The Consult package only provides commands and does not add any keybindings or
modes. Therefore the package is non-intrusive but requires a little setup
effort. In order to use the Consult commands, it is advised to add keybindings
for commands which are accessed often. Rarely used commands can be invoked via
@samp{M-x}. Feel free to only bind the commands you consider useful to your workflow.

@strong{NOTE:} There is the @uref{https://github.com/minad/consult/wiki, Consult wiki}, where additional configuration examples can be
contributed.

@lisp
;; Example configuration for Consult
(use-package consult
  ;; Replace bindings. Lazily loaded due by `use-package'.
  :bind (;; C-c bindings (mode-specific-map)
         ("C-c h" . consult-history)
         ("C-c m" . consult-mode-command)
         ("C-c b" . consult-bookmark)
         ("C-c k" . consult-kmacro)
         ;; C-x bindings (ctl-x-map)
         ("C-x M-:" . consult-complex-command)     ;; orig. repeat-complex-command
         ("C-x b" . consult-buffer)                ;; orig. switch-to-buffer
         ("C-x 4 b" . consult-buffer-other-window) ;; orig. switch-to-buffer-other-window
         ("C-x 5 b" . consult-buffer-other-frame)  ;; orig. switch-to-buffer-other-frame
         ;; Custom M-# bindings for fast register access
         ("M-#" . consult-register-load)
         ("M-'" . consult-register-store)          ;; orig. abbrev-prefix-mark (unrelated)
         ("C-M-#" . consult-register)
         ;; Other custom bindings
         ("M-y" . consult-yank-pop)                ;; orig. yank-pop
         ("<help> a" . consult-apropos)            ;; orig. apropos-command
         ;; M-g bindings (goto-map)
         ("M-g e" . consult-compile-error)
         ("M-g f" . consult-flymake)               ;; Alternative: consult-flycheck
         ("M-g g" . consult-goto-line)             ;; orig. goto-line
         ("M-g M-g" . consult-goto-line)           ;; orig. goto-line
         ("M-g o" . consult-outline)
         ("M-g m" . consult-mark)
         ("M-g k" . consult-global-mark)
         ("M-g i" . consult-imenu)
         ("M-g I" . consult-project-imenu)
         ;; M-s bindings (search-map)
         ("M-s f" . consult-find)
         ("M-s L" . consult-locate)
         ("M-s g" . consult-grep)
         ("M-s G" . consult-git-grep)
         ("M-s r" . consult-ripgrep)
         ("M-s l" . consult-line)
         ("M-s m" . consult-multi-occur)
         ("M-s k" . consult-keep-lines)
         ("M-s u" . consult-focus-lines)
         ;; Isearch integration
         ("M-s e" . consult-isearch)
         :map isearch-mode-map
         ("M-e" . consult-isearch)                 ;; orig. isearch-edit-string
         ("M-s e" . consult-isearch)               ;; orig. isearch-edit-string
         ("M-s l" . consult-line))                 ;; required by consult-line to detect isearch

  ;; Enable automatic preview at point in the *Completions* buffer.
  ;; This is relevant when you use the default completion UI,
  ;; and not necessary for Selectrum, Vertico etc.
  :hook (completion-list-mode . consult-preview-at-point-mode)

  ;; The :init configuration is always executed (Not lazy)
  :init

  ;; Optionally configure the register formatting. This improves the register
  ;; preview for `consult-register', `consult-register-load',
  ;; `consult-register-store' and the Emacs built-ins.
  (setq register-preview-delay 0
        register-preview-function #'consult-register-format)

  ;; Optionally tweak the register preview window.
  ;; This adds thin lines, sorting and hides the mode line of the window.
  (advice-add #'register-preview :override #'consult-register-window)

  ;; Use Consult to select xref locations with preview
  (setq xref-show-xrefs-function #'consult-xref
        xref-show-definitions-function #'consult-xref)

  ;; Configure other variables and modes in the :config section,
  ;; after lazily loading the package.
  :config

  ;; Optionally configure preview. Note that the preview-key can also be
  ;; configured on a per-command basis via `consult-config'. The default value
  ;; is 'any, such that any key triggers the preview.
  ;; (setq consult-preview-key 'any)
  ;; (setq consult-preview-key (kbd "M-."))
  ;; (setq consult-preview-key (list (kbd "<S-down>") (kbd "<S-up>")))
  (dolist (cmd '(consult-ripgrep consult-git-grep consult-grep consult-bookmark consult-recent-file))
    (setf (alist-get cmd consult-config) `(:preview-key ,(kbd "M-."))))
  (dolist (src '(consult--source-file consult--source-project-file consult--source-bookmark))
    (set src (plist-put (symbol-value src) :preview-key (kbd "M-."))))

  ;; Optionally configure the narrowing key.
  ;; Both < and C-+ work reasonably well.
  (setq consult-narrow-key "<") ;; (kbd "C-+")

  ;; Optionally make narrowing help available in the minibuffer.
  ;; You may want to use `embark-prefix-help-command' or which-key instead.
  ;; (define-key consult-narrow-map (vconcat consult-narrow-key "?") #'consult-narrow-help)

  ;; Optionally configure a function which returns the project root directory.
  ;; There are multiple reasonable alternatives to chose from.
  ;;;; 1. project.el (project-roots)
  (setq consult-project-root-function
        (lambda ()
          (when-let (project (project-current))
            (car (project-roots project)))))
  ;;;; 2. projectile.el (projectile-project-root)
  ;; (autoload 'projectile-project-root "projectile")
  ;; (setq consult-project-root-function #'projectile-project-root)
  ;;;; 3. vc.el (vc-root-dir)
  ;; (setq consult-project-root-function #'vc-root-dir)
  ;;;; 4. locate-dominating-file
  ;; (setq consult-project-root-function (lambda () (locate-dominating-file "." ".git")))
)
@end lisp

@node Custom variables
@section Custom variables

@cindex customization

@strong{TIP:} If you have @uref{https://github.com/minad/marginalia, Marginalia} installed, type @samp{M-x customize-variable RET
 ^consult} to see all Consult-specific customizable variables with their current
values and abbreviated description. Alternatively, type @samp{C-h a ^consult} to get
an overview of all Consult variables and functions with their descriptions.

@multitable {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa}
@headitem Variable
@tab Default
@tab Description
@item consult-after-jump-hook
@tab '(recenter)
@tab Functions to call after jumping to a location
@item consult-async-default-split
@tab "#"
@tab Separator character used for splitting #async#filter
@item consult-async-input-debounce
@tab 0.25
@tab Input debounce for asynchronous commands
@item consult-async-input-throttle
@tab 0.5
@tab Input throttle for asynchronous commands
@item consult-async-min-input
@tab 3
@tab Minimum numbers of letters needed for async process
@item consult-async-refresh-delay
@tab 0.25
@tab Refresh delay for asynchronous commands
@item consult-bookmark-narrow
@tab @dots{}
@tab Narrowing configuration for @samp{consult-bookmark}
@item consult-buffer-filter
@tab @dots{}
@tab Filter for @samp{consult-buffer}
@item consult-buffer-sources
@tab @dots{}
@tab List of virtual buffer sources
@item consult-config
@tab nil
@tab Invididual command option configuration
@item consult-find-command
@tab "find @dots{}"
@tab Command line arguments for find
@item consult-fontify-max-size
@tab 1048576
@tab Buffers larger than this limit are not fontified
@item consult-fontify-preserve
@tab t
@tab Preserve fontification for line-based commands.
@item consult-git-grep-command
@tab '(@dots{})
@tab Command line arguments for git-grep
@item consult-goto-line-numbers
@tab t
@tab Show line numbers for @samp{consult-goto-line}
@item consult-grep-max-colums
@tab 250
@tab Maximal number of columns of the matching lines
@item consult-grep-command
@tab "grep @dots{}"
@tab Command line arguments for grep
@item consult-imenu-config
@tab @dots{}
@tab Mode-specific configuration for @samp{consult-imenu}
@item consult-line-numbers-widen
@tab t
@tab Show absolute line numbers when narrowing is active.
@item consult-line-point-placement
@tab 'match-beginning
@tab Placement of the point used by @samp{consult-line}
@item consult-line-start-from-top
@tab nil
@tab Start the @samp{consult-line} search from the top
@item consult-locate-command
@tab "locate @dots{}"
@tab Command line arguments for locate
@item consult-mode-command-filter
@tab @dots{}
@tab Filter for @samp{consult-mode-command}
@item consult-mode-histories
@tab @dots{}
@tab Mode-specific history variables
@item consult-narrow-key
@tab nil
@tab Narrowing prefix key during completion
@item consult-preview-key
@tab 'any
@tab Keys which triggers preview
@item consult-preview-max-count
@tab 10
@tab Maximum number of files to keep open during preview
@item consult-preview-max-size
@tab 10485760
@tab Files larger than this size are not previewed
@item consult-preview-raw-size
@tab 102400
@tab Files larger than this size are previewed in raw form
@item consult-project-root-function
@tab nil
@tab Function which returns current project root
@item consult-register-narrow
@tab @dots{}
@tab Narrowing configuration for @samp{consult-register}
@item consult-ripgrep-command
@tab "rg @dots{}"
@tab Command line arguments for ripgrep
@item consult-themes
@tab nil
@tab List of themes to be presented for selection
@item consult-widen-key
@tab nil
@tab Widening key during completion
@end multitable

@node Fine-tuning
@section Fine-tuning of individual commands

@strong{NOTE:} Consult allows fine-grained customization of individual commands. This
configuration feature is made available for experienced users with special
requirements.

Commands allow flexible, individual customization by setting the
@samp{consult-config} list. You can override any option passed to the internal
@samp{consult--read} API@. The @uref{https://github.com/minad/consult/wiki, Consult wiki} already contains a few useful
configuration examples. Note that since @samp{consult--read} is part of the internal
API, options could be removed, replaced or renamed in future versions of the
package.

Useful options are:
@itemize
@item
@samp{:prompt} set the prompt string
@item
@samp{:preview-key} set the preview key, default is @samp{consult-preview-key}
@item
@samp{:initial} set the initial input
@item
@samp{:default} set the default value
@item
@samp{:history} set the history variable symbol
@item
@samp{:add-history} add items to the future history, for example symbol at point
@item
@samp{:sort} enable or disable sorting
@item
@samp{:title} set to nil in order to disable candidate grouping and titles.
@end itemize

@lisp
;; Set preview for `consult-buffer' to key `M-.'
;; and disable preview for `consult-theme' completely.
;; For `consult-line' specify multiple keybindings.
;; Note that you should bind <S-up> and <S-down> in the
;; `minibuffer-local-completion-map', `selectrum-minibuffer-map' or
;; `vertico-map' to the commands which select the previous or next candidate.
(setf (alist-get 'consult-theme consult-config) '(:preview-key nil))
(setf (alist-get 'consult-buffer consult-config) `(:preview-key ,(kbd "M-.")))
(setf (alist-get 'consult-line consult-config) `(:preview-key (,(kbd "<S-down>") ,(kbd "<S-up>"))))
@end lisp

Generally it is possible to modify commands for your individual needs by the
following techniques:

@enumerate
@item
Create your own wrapper function which passes modified arguments to the Consult functions.
@item
Create your own buffer @ref{Multiple sources, , multi sources} for @samp{consult-buffer}.
@item
Modify @samp{consult-config} in order to change the @samp{consult--read} settings.
@item
Create advices to modify some internal behavior.
@item
Write or propose a patch.
@end enumerate

@node Recommended packages
@chapter Recommended packages

It is highly recommended to install the following package combination:

@itemize
@item
consult: This package
@item
@uref{https://github.com/raxod502/selectrum, selectrum}, @uref{https://github.com/minad/vertico, vertico} or @uref{https://github.com/oantolin/icomplete-vertical, icomplete-vertical}: Vertical completion systems
(Icomplete-vertical is only needed for Emacs 27, built-in on Emacs 28)
@item
@uref{https://github.com/minad/marginalia, marginalia}: Annotations for the completion candidates
@item
@uref{https://github.com/oantolin/embark, embark and embark-consult}: Action commands, which can act on the completion candidates
@item
@uref{https://github.com/oantolin/orderless, orderless}: Completion style which offers flexible candidate filtering
@end itemize

There exist a few packages which integrate Consult with special programs or with
other packages in the Emacs ecosystem. You may want to install some of them
depending on your personal preferences.

@itemize
@item
consult-flycheck: Provides the @samp{consult-flycheck} command (maintained in this repository).
@item
@uref{https://github.com/gagbo/consult-lsp, consult-lsp}: Integration with @uref{https://github.com/emacs-lsp/lsp-mode, LSP-Mode} (Language Server Protocol).
@item
@uref{https://codeberg.org/jao/consult-notmuch, consult-notmuch}: Access the @uref{https://notmuchmail.org/, Notmuch} email system using Consult.
@item
@uref{https://codeberg.org/jao/consult-recoll, consult-recoll}: Access the @uref{https://www.lesbonscomptes.com/recoll/, Recoll} desktop full-text search using Consult.
@item
@uref{https://codeberg.org/jao/espotify, consult-spotify}: Access the Spotify API and control your local music player.
@item
@uref{https://github.com/minad/affe, affe}: Asynchronous Fuzzy Finder for Emacs (uses Consult under the hood).
@end itemize

Not directly related to Consult, but maybe still of interest are the following
packages. These packages should work well with Consult, follow a similar spirit or
offer functionality based on @code{completing-read}.

@itemize
@item
@uref{https://github.com/minad/corfu, corfu}, @uref{https://github.com/company-mode/company-mode, company}: Completion systems for @samp{completion-at-point} using small popups.
@item
@uref{https://github.com/minad/bookmark-view, bookmark-view}: Store window configuration as bookmarks, possible integration with @samp{consult-buffer}.
@item
@uref{https://github.com/d12frosted/flyspell-correct, flyspell-correct}: Apply spelling corrections by selecting via @samp{completing-read}.
@item
@uref{https://github.com/mhayashi1120/Emacs-wgrep, wgrep}: Editing of grep buffers, can be used together with @samp{consult-grep} via @samp{embark-export}.
@item
@uref{https://github.com/raxod502/prescient.el, prescient}: Sorts completion candidates according to frecency
(Selectrum-specific, Orderless is recommended instead).
@end itemize

Note that all packages are independent and can potentially be exchanged with
alternative components, since there exist no hard dependencies. Furthermore it
is possible to get started with only default completion and Consult and add more
components later to the mix. For example Embark can be omitted if action support
is not desired.

The Selectrum repository provides a @uref{https://github.com/raxod502/selectrum/tree/master/test, set of scripts} which allow experimenting
with multiple package combinations including various completion systems and
Consult. After cloning the Selectrum repository, the scripts can be executed
with @samp{cd selectrum/test; ./run.sh <package-combo.el>}. The scripts do not modify
your existing Emacs configuration, but create a separate Emacs configuration in
@samp{/tmp}.

@node Bug reports
@chapter Bug reports

If you find a bug or suspect that there is a problem with Consult, please carry
out the following steps:

@enumerate
@item
Check first that @strong{all the relevant packages are updated to the newest version}.
This includes Consult, Selectrum, Vertico, Icomplete-vertical, Marginalia,
Embark, Orderless and Prescient in case you are using any of those packages.
@item
Ensure that either @samp{icomplete-mode}, @samp{selectrum-mode} or @samp{vertico-mode} is enabled.
Furthermore @samp{ivy-mode} and @samp{helm-mode} must be disabled.
@item
Ensure that the @samp{completion-styles} variable is properly configured. Try to set
@samp{completion-styles} to a list including @samp{substring} or @samp{orderless}.
@item
Try to reproduce the issue by starting a barebone Emacs instance with @samp{emacs -Q}
on the command line. Execute the following minimal code snippets in the
scratch buffer. This way we can exclude side effects due to configuration
settings. If other packages are relevant to reproduce the issue, include them
in the minimal configuration snippet.
@end enumerate

Minimal setup with Selectrum for @samp{emacs -Q}:
@lisp
(package-initialize)
(require 'consult)
(require 'selectrum)
(selectrum-mode)
(setq completion-styles '(substring))
@end lisp

Minimal setup with Vertico for @samp{emacs -Q}:
@lisp
(package-initialize)
(require 'consult)
(require 'vertico)
(vertico-mode)
(setq completion-styles '(substring))
@end lisp

Minimal setup with the default completion system for @samp{emacs -Q}:
@lisp
(package-initialize)
(require 'consult)
(setq completion-styles '(substring))
@end lisp

Please provide the necessary important information with your bug report:

@itemize
@item
The minimal configuration snippet used to reproduce the issue.
@item
The full stack trace in case the bug triggers an exception.
@item
Your Emacs version, since bugs are often version-dependant.
@item
Your operating system, since Emacs builds vary between Linux, Mac and
Windows.
@item
The package manager, e.g., straight.el or package.el, used to install
the Emacs packages. This information is helpful to exclude update issues.
@item
If you are using Evil or other special packages which change Emacs on a
fundamental level. There have been Evil-related problems before, which are
fixed now.
@end itemize

When evaluating Consult-related code snippets it is required to enable @uref{https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/elisp/Lexical-Binding.html, lexical
binding}. Consult uses a functional programming style, relying on lambdas and
lexical closures.

@node Contributions
@chapter Contributions

Consult is intended to be a community effort, please participate in the
discussions. Contributions are welcome, but it is recommended to discuss
potential contributions first. Since it is planned to submit the package to GNU
ELPA, copyright assigments to the FSF are a requirement for contributions.

If you have a proposal, take a look at the @uref{https://github.com/consult/issues, Consult issue tracker} and the @uref{https://github.com/minad/consult/issues/6, Consult
wishlist}. There exists a rich set of prior feature discussions. You can
contribute to the @uref{https://github.com/minad/consult/wiki, Consult wiki}, in case you want to share small configuration or
command snippets.

@node Acknowledgements
@chapter Acknowledgements

You probably guessed from the name that this package took inspiration from
@uref{https://github.com/abo-abo/swiper#counsel, Counsel} by Oleh Krehel. Some of the Consult commands originated in the Counsel
package or the @uref{https://github.com/raxod502/selectrum/wiki/Useful-Commands, Selectrum wiki}. The commands have been rewritten and greatly
enhanced in comparison to the original versions. In particular all
Selectrum-specific code has been removed, such that the commands are compatible
with the @samp{completing-read} API@.

Code contributions:
@itemize
@item
@uref{https://github.com/oantolin/, Omar Antolín Camarena}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/s-kostyaev/, Sergey Kostyaev}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/okamsn/, okamsn}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/clemera/, Clemens Radermacher}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/tomfitzhenry/, Tom Fitzhenry}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/jakanakaevangeli, jakanakaevangeli}
@item
@uref{https://hg.serna.eu, Iñigo Serna}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/aspiers/, Adam Spiers}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/omar-polo, Omar Polo}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/astoff, Augusto Stoffel}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/noctuid, Fox Kiester}
@end itemize

Advice and useful discussions:
@itemize
@item
@uref{https://github.com/clemera/, Clemens Radermacher}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/oantolin/, Omar Antolín Camarena}
@item
@uref{https://gitlab.com/protesilaos/, Protesilaos Stavrou}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/purcell/, Steve Purcell}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/alphapapa/, Adam Porter}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/manuel-uberti/, Manuel Uberti}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/tomfitzhenry/, Tom Fitzhenry}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/hmelman/, Howard Melman}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/monnier/, Stefan Monnier}
@item
@uref{https://github.com/dgutov/, Dmitry Gutov}
@end itemize

Authors of supplementary @samp{consult-*} packages:

@itemize
@item
@uref{https://codeberg.org/jao/, Jose A Ortega Ruiz} (@uref{https://codeberg.org/jao/consult-notmuch, consult-notmuch}, @uref{https://codeberg.org/jao/consult-recoll, consult-recoll}, @uref{https://codeberg.org/jao/espotify, consult-spotify})
@item
@uref{https://github.com/gagbo/, Gerry Agbobada} (@uref{https://github.com/gagbo/consult-lsp, consult-lsp})
@end itemize

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::               List of all Consult commands
* Concept index::                List of all Consult-specific concepts
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Concept index
@section Concept index

@printindex cp

@bye